[ADD] Manufacturing: Allocation reports (#9822)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/manufacturing/workflows/allocation.rst

sometimes necessary to prioritize one |SO| or |MO| over another. In situations where there is
insufficient stock on-hand to fulfill every |SO| or |MO|, this means ensuring that products and
components are reserved for those that must be prioritized.

In Odoo *Manufacturing*, allocation reports are used on |MOs| to assign products to specific sales
orders |SOs|, or components to specific |MOs|. This ensure that the products or components are
available for those orders, and are not used for others by mistake.

Configuration
=============

To use allocation reports, the *Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders* feature must be enabled.
To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Configuration --> Settings`, and tick
the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders`.

.. image:: allocation/allocation-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders setting.

For products that are sold, it is also necessary to configure them so they can be included in |SOs|.
To do so, begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Products`, and select a

> product. Under the product's name, make sure that the :guilabel:`Can Be Sold` checkbox is enabled.

Reviewer: Looks like when you first make a product, 'Can Be Sold' is automatically enabled. Not sure if you want to add that as a note, that this is a default? Or link to an 'add a product' doc? Just suggestions.

.. image:: allocation/can-be-sold.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Can Be Sold checkbox on a product form.

Allocate products
=================

> To allocate products or components from the |MO| in which they were produced to an |SO| or different
> |MO|, begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Orders --> Manufacturing Orders`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allocate products or components from a |MO| to an |SO| or different
|MO|, begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Orders --> Manufacturing Orders`.
```

> Click :guilabel:`New` to create a new |MO|.
> 
> On the |MO|, select a product in the :guilabel:`Product` field, and specify the quantity to be
> produced in the :guilabel:`Quantity` field. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the |MO|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Click :guilabel:`New` to create a new |MO|, and select a product in the :guilabel:`Product` field. Next, specify the quantity to be
produced in the :guilabel:`Quantity` field. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the |MO|.
```
I just wanted to have the 'New' part and the edits together in a paragraph- optional suggestion!

The rest of the allocation workflow depends on the current on-hand quantity of the product being
manufactured, and whether or not there are any |SOs| or |MOs| which require the product, but have

> not already been allocated units of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not already been allocated.
```

> If there **ARE** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **AND** there are too few units

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there **are** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **and** there are too few units
```
Typically when I have these words, they are edited by others to be bold but not be in all caps. Just a suggestion to keep docs somewhat similar, but this is optional.

> of the product on-hand to fulfill those orders, then a :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation` smart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the product on-hand to fulfill those orders, then an :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation` smart
```

button appears at the top of the page as soon as the |MO| is confirmed.

> If there **ARE** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **AND** there **ARE** enough

Reviewer: same note as above

units of the product on-hand to fulfill those orders, then the :icon:`fa-list`
:guilabel:`Allocation` smart button only appears at the top of the page once the |MO| has been
marked as done, by clicking :guilabel:`Produce All`.

.. image:: allocation/allocation-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Allocation smart button at the top of an MO.

.. note::

>    If there **ARE NOT** any existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, the :icon:`fa-list`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If there are **not** any existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, the :icon:`fa-list`
```

   :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button does not appear, even when the |MO| has been marked as done.

> Click the :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button to open the *MRP Reception Report* for
> the |MO|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button  and the guilabel:`MRP Reception Report` for
the |MO| loads.
```

> If a finished product is manufactured, this page lists any open customer delivery orders for which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a finished product is manufactured, this report lists any open customer delivery orders for which
```
not sure if it's a report but it says it's a report in the name, so this is just a suggestion.

quantities of the product have yet to be reserved.

> If a manufacturing component is manufactured, this page lists any open |MOs| for which quantities of
> the component have yet to be reserved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a component is manufactured, this page lists any open |MOs| for which quantities of
the component have yet to be reserved.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Assign All` button to the right of a specific order to assign products for each

> quantity required to fulfill that order. For example, if an order requires one quantity of four

Reviewer: This example could be slightly re-written to be inside an example admonition block. I fin d these super helpful and they stand out to the reader. Just a suggestion!

units of the product, and one quantity of one unit of the product, clicking :guilabel:`Assign All`
assigns five units of the product to fulfill both quantities.

Alternatively, click :guilabel:`Assign` next to a specific quantity to only assign products to that
quantity, and not any others in the order. Using the previous example, clicking :guilabel:`Assign`
next to the quantity of one unit assigns a product to that quantity, but leaves the quantity of four

> units without any products assigned.

Reviewer: I found this section a little confusing to me. I think having an example admonition where there is a clear example might be helpful. I know it would be for me =)

> After assigning products to a quantity, the :guilabel:`Assign` button turns into an

Reviewer: Is it assigned to a quantity? Or a MO? This just sounds odd to me.

:guilabel:`Unassign` button. Click :guilabel:`Unassign` to unreserve the assigned products from that

> quantity, making them available for other quantities.

Reviewer: Quantities is throwing me here, too. They are being assigned to MO's, right? And you are selecting how many of X are being reserved for MO's? I would replace the word quantities to MO's if that is correct.

.. image:: allocation/reception-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The MRP Reception Report for an MO.

After clicking :guilabel:`Assign All` or :guilabel:`Assign`, the :guilabel:`Print Labels` or
:guilabel:`Print Label` button to the right of it becomes selectable. Selecting either button
generates and downloads a PDF document with one label for each product that was assigned. These
labels are used to designate each product as being reserved for that specific order.

> .. image:: allocation/assigned-labels.png

Reviewer: This image is confusing for me - I couldn't get my runbots to do this flow, so I couldn't reproduce this image. It's repeating all the same info on each slip- is there a larger pic with more info that you can add here?

Author: Each label should have the same info since all of the products have been allocated to the same order.

==================
Allocation reports
==================

.. |SO| replace:: :abbr:`SO (sales order)`
.. |SOs| replace:: :abbr:`SOs (sales orders)`
.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (manufacturing order)`
.. |MOs| replace:: :abbr:`MOs (manufacturing orders)`
.. |RfQ| replace:: :abbr:`RfQ (request for quotation)`

When fulfilling sales orders (SOs), or sourcing components for manufacturing orders (MOs), it is
sometimes necessary to prioritize one |SO| or |MO| over another. In situations where there is
insufficient stock on-hand to fulfill every |SO| or |MO|, this means ensuring that products and
components are reserved for those that must be prioritized.

In Odoo *Manufacturing*, allocation reports are used on |MOs| to assign products to specific sales

> orders |SOs|, or components to specific |MOs|. This ensure that the products or components are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
orders |SOs|, or components to specific |MOs|. This ensures the products or components are
```

available for those orders, and are not used by mistake.

Configuration
=============

> To use allocation reports, the *Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders* feature must be enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use allocation reports, the *Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders* feature **must** be enabled.
```

To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Configuration --> Settings`, and tick

> the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

.. image:: allocation/allocation-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders setting.

> For products that are sold, it is also necessary to configure them so they can be included in |SOs|.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For products that are sold, it is also necessary to configure them, so they can be included in |SOs|.
```

> To do so, begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Products`, and select a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do so, begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Products`, and select a
```

Reviewer 2: Could this be done directly through the Manufacturing app? Could be a nice way to save some time, and make everything complete in one app -- but that's just a suggestion. Totally your call.

Author: It can be, but I prefer to always have inventory actions conducted through the Inventory app.

> product. Under the product's name, make sure that the :guilabel:`Can Be Sold` checkbox is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
product. Under the :guilabel:`Product Name` on the product form, make sure that the :guilabel:`Can Be Sold` checkbox is ticked.
```

.. image:: allocation/can-be-sold.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Can Be Sold checkbox on a product form.

Allocate products
=================

> To allocate products or components from an |MO| to an |SO| or different |MO|, begin by navigating to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To allocate products or components from an |MO| to an |SO|, or to a different |MO|, begin by navigating to
```

> :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Orders --> Manufacturing Orders`. Click :guilabel:`New` to create

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`. Click :guilabel:`New` to create
```

a new |MO|.

> On the |MO|, select a product in the :guilabel:`Product` field, and specify the quantity to be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the |MO| form, select a product in the :guilabel:`Product` field, and specify the quantity to be
```

The rest of the allocation workflow depends on the current on-hand quantity of the product being
manufactured, and whether or not there are any |SOs| or |MOs| which require the product, but have
not already been allocated units.

If there **ARE** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **AND** there are too few units
of the product on-hand to fulfill those orders, then an :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation` smart
button appears at the top of the page as soon as the |MO| is confirmed.

If there **ARE** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **AND** there **ARE** enough
units of the product on-hand to fulfill those orders, then the :icon:`fa-list`
:guilabel:`Allocation` smart button only appears at the top of the page once the |MO| has been
marked as done, by clicking :guilabel:`Produce All`.

.. image:: allocation/allocation-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Allocation smart button at the top of an MO.

.. note::
   If there **ARE NOT** any existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, the :icon:`fa-list`
   :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button does not appear, even when the |MO| has been marked as done.

> Click the :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button to open the *MRP Reception Report* for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button to open the :guilabel:`MRP Reception Report` for
```
OPTIONAL
I fully get the use of italics here because, at this point, the title of the page *technically* isn't being seen. However, I am merely suggesting the use of a GUI here because, if the reader were to follow along as each step is explained, they would have, at this point, clicked the 'Allocation' smart button, which *does* reveal this title on the page. 

That said, I think both options are feasible, just thought it was worth suggesting for your consideration during your reviews.

the |MO|. This report lists open delivery orders or |MOs|, depending on the type of product produced
in the original |MO|.

Allocate to delivery order
--------------------------

If the |MO| contains a finished product, the report lists any open delivery orders for which
quantities of the product have yet to be reserved.

.. example::
   An |MO| is created to produce three units of a *rocking chair*. Clicking the
   :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button on the |MO| opens an allocation report that lists open

>    delivery orders that require one or more rocking chairs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   delivery orders that require one or more *rocking chairs*.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Assign All` button to the right of a specific order to assign products for each
quantity required to fulfill that order.

.. example::
   If an order requires one quantity of four units of the product, and one quantity of one unit of
   the product, clicking :guilabel:`Assign All` assigns five units of the product to fulfill both
   quantities.

Alternatively, click :guilabel:`Assign` next to a specific quantity to only assign products to that
quantity, and not any others in the order.

.. example::
   If an order requires one quantity of four units of the product, and one quantity of one unit of
   the product, clicking :guilabel:`Assign` next to the quantity of one unit assigns a product to
   that quantity, but leaves the quantity of four units without any products assigned.

.. image:: allocation/product-reception-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The MRP Reception Report for an MO containing finished products.

Allocate to MO
--------------

If the |MO| contains a component, the report lists any open |MOs| for which quantities of the
component have yet to be reserved.

.. example::

>    An |MO| is created to produce three units of *wood*, which is used as a component for the rocking
>    chair product. Clicking the :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button on the |MO| opens an allocation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   An |MO| is created to produce three units of *wood*, which is used as a component for the *rocking
   chair* product. Clicking the :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button on the |MO| opens an allocation
```

>    report that lists open rocking chair |MOs| that require one or more pieces of wood.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   report that lists open *rocking chair* |MOs| that require one or more pieces of *wood*.
```

Click the :guilabel:`Assign All` or :guilabel:`Assign` button to the right of a specific |MO| to
assign components to that |MO|.

.. image:: allocation/component-reception-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The MRP Reception Report for an MO containing components.

Unassign products
-----------------

After assigning products to a quantity within a delivery order, or components to an |MO|,
the :guilabel:`Assign` button turns into an :guilabel:`Unassign` button. Click :guilabel:`Unassign`
to unreserve the assigned products from that quantity, making them available for other quantities.

Print labels
------------

> After clicking :guilabel:`Assign All` or :guilabel:`Assign`, the :guilabel:`Print Labels` or
> :guilabel:`Print Label` button to the right of it becomes selectable. Selecting either button
> generates and downloads a PDF document with one label for each product that was assigned. These

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After clicking :guilabel:`Assign All` or :guilabel:`Assign`, the :guilabel:`Print Labels` (or
:guilabel:`Print Label`) button becomes selectable. Selecting either button
generates and downloads a PDF document, with one label for each product that was assigned. These
```

==================

.. |SO| replace:: :abbr:`SO (sales order)`
.. |SOs| replace:: :abbr:`SOs (sales orders)`
.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (manufacturing order)`
.. |MOs| replace:: :abbr:`MOs (manufacturing orders)`
.. |RfQ| replace:: :abbr:`RfQ (request for quotation)`

When fulfilling sales orders (SOs), or sourcing components for manufacturing orders (MOs), it is
sometimes necessary to prioritize one |SO| or |MO| over another. In situations where there is
insufficient stock on-hand to fulfill every |SO| or |MO|, ensuring that products and components are
reserved for priority orders is essential.

In Odoo *Manufacturing*, allocation reports are used on |MOs| to assign products to specific sales
orders |SOs|, or components to specific |MOs|. This ensures the products or components are available
for those orders, and are not used by mistake.

Configuration
=============

To use allocation reports, the *Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders* feature **must** be
enabled. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Configuration --> Settings`,
and tick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders`. Then, click
:guilabel:`Save`.

> 
> .. image:: allocation/allocation-setting.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: The Allocation Report for Manufacturing Orders setting.

Reviewer 3: I dont think this image adds much value, since the instruction is very clear. Can remove :)
```suggestion
```

For products that are sold, it is also necessary to configure them so they can be included in |SOs|.
To do so, begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Products`, and select a
product. Under the :guilabel:`Product Name` field on the product form, make sure that the
:guilabel:`Can Be Sold` checkbox is ticked.

> 
> .. image:: allocation/can-be-sold.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: The Can Be Sold checkbox on a product form.

Reviewer 3: Same with this one, can remove :)
```suggestion
```

Allocate products
=================

To allocate products or components from an |MO| to an |SO|, or to a different |MO|, begin by
navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`. Click
:guilabel:`New` to create a new |MO|.

On the |MO| form, select a product in the :guilabel:`Product` field, and specify the quantity to be
produced in the :guilabel:`Quantity` field. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the |MO|.

The rest of the allocation workflow depends on the current on-hand quantity of the product being
manufactured, and whether or not there are any |SOs| or |MOs| which require the product, but have
not already been allocated units.

> If there **ARE** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **AND** there are too few units

Reviewer 3: I understand this is important to distinguish, but I think the all-cap is a bit much. Suggesting to just leverage the bold formatting for emphasis :) 
```suggestion
If there **are** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **and** there are too few units
```

of the product on-hand to fulfill those orders, then an :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation` smart
button appears at the top of the page as soon as the |MO| is confirmed.

> If there **ARE** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **AND** there **ARE** enough
> units of the product on-hand to fulfill those orders, then the :icon:`fa-list`
> :guilabel:`Allocation` smart button only appears at the top of the page once the |MO| has been
> marked as done, by clicking :guilabel:`Produce All`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there **are** existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, **and** there are enough units
of the product on-hand to fulfill those orders, then the :icon:`fa-list` :guilabel:`Allocation`
smart button only appears at the top of the page once the |MO| has been marked as done, by clicking
:guilabel:`Produce All`.
```

.. image:: allocation/allocation-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Allocation smart button at the top of an MO.

.. note::

>    If there **ARE NOT** any existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, the :icon:`fa-list`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   If there **are not** any existing |SOs| and |MOs| that require the product, the :icon:`fa-list`
```
